---
title: OpenINF Security Policies
permalink: /docs/dev/internals/security
note: This file is autogenerated. Edit SECURITY.md instead.
---

The OpenINF SDK team, now benefitting from [dual Maintainership][], takes the security
of OpenINF and the applications created with its SDK seriously. This page describes
how to report any vulnerabilities you may find and lists best practices to minimize
the risk of introducing or being affected by a vulnerability.

### Reporting Vulnerabilities

In the rare event that you find a vulnerability in the OpenINF SDK itself,
[email us][]. We hope to regularly work with the cybersecurity community and the
brilliant researchers in the field to arrive at positive outcomes for all parties
involved. An alternative to email for reporting should be available shortly for those
uncomfortable with that medium. Anonymous reports will also gladly be accepted. We
also hope to introduce a healthy manner of incentivizing reporting in the near term.

### Best Practices

- **Keep current with the latest OpenINF SDK releases.** We regularly update the
  various packages that the OpenINF SDK is composed of, and these updates may
  fix security defects discovered in earlier versions. Regularly review
  changelogs associated with the different OpenINF SDK package releases for
  security-related updates. Be sure to make the upgrades quickly once release
  notes are published, as they will contain information relevant to potential
  vulnerabilities. We hope to accompany these notices with detailed instructions
  explaining how any exploits could have been taken advantage of by malicious
  actor(s). This practice is to keep package consumers informed whether they may
  or may not have been affected and to ensure folks can make educated decisions
  relating to any potential remediation activities that may be necessary.

- **Keep your project's dependencies up to date.** Make sure you upgrade your
  package dependencies to keep the dependencies up to date. Avoid pinning to
  specific versions for your dependencies. If you do, check periodically to see
  if your dependencies have had security updates and update the pin accordingly.
  Doing this manually, however, can become tedious. It is advisable to use an
  automated dependency update tool that fits into your workflows, such as [Mend
  Renovate][] (also known as Renovatebot), which we are thankful to have as one of
  our organization's trusted partners in automated dependency management.[^1] We
  hope you, dearest reader, will soon join us in our journey to maintain our secure
  software ecosystems.

<!-- BEGIN LINK DEFINITIONS -->

[^1]:
    <https://www.mend.io/product-info/news/whitesource-renovate-users-now-rewarded-through-google-sponsored-openssf-program>

[dual Maintainership]:
    <https://gitlab.com/gitlab-com/www-gitlab-com/-/issues/13696#user-content--how-this-could-work>
[email us]: <mailto:security@inf.is>
[Mend Renovate]: <https://www.mend.io/free-developer-tools/renovate>

<!-- END LINK DEFINITIONS -->
