Copyright (c) The OpenINF Authors. All Rights Reserved. MIT License.

Subject to the terms and conditions of this License, each Contributor hereby
grants to You a perpetual, worldwide, non-exclusive, no-charge, royalty-free,
irrevocable copyright license to use the Work, reproduce the Work, prepare
Derivative Works of, publicly display, publicly perform, sublicense, and may
reproduce and distribute copies of the Work or Derivative Works thereof in any
medium, with or without modifications, and in Source or Object form, and its
associated documentation (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without
restriction, for any purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice appear in all copies, that both that copyright notice
and this permission notice appear in supporting documentation, and to permit
persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the Rights to use, copy,
modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the
Software, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software. The copyright holders make no
representation about the suitability of the Software for any purpose.

     It is provided "as is" without expressed or implied warranty.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR
COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER
IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
